Locating Space for Your Shellcode
Next, we must find if there are any
registers that point to our buffer
at the time of the crash.
This step is essential, allowing us to
subsequently attempt to identify possible
JMP or CALL instructions that can
redirect the execution flow to our buffer.
We notice that the ESP register points to
the end of our buffer, leaving only seven
bytes of space for shellcode.
Furthermore, after a bit of
experimentation, we determined that we
can’t increase the overflow buffer size
in an attempt to gain more space.
Even a single byte increase produces a
different crash that does not properly
overwrite EIP.
Taking a closer look at the state of our
registers at crash time
reveals more options.
The EAX register seems to point to the
beginning of our buffer,
including the “setup sound” string.
The fact that EAX points directly to the
beginning of the command string
may impact our ability to simply jump to
the buffer pointed at by EAX,
as we would be executing the hex opcodes
equivalent of the ASCII string
“setup sound” before our shellcode.
This would most likely mangle the
execution path
and cause our exploit to fail.
Or would it?
Further examination of the actual opcodes
generated by the “setup sound” string
reveals some interesting instructions.
It seems that the opcode instructions
for the first two letters of the word
“setup”, s and e, translate to a
conditional jump instruction, which seems
to jump to a nearby location in our
controlled buffer.
The next two letters, t and u, translate
to a slightly different conditional jump.
All these jumps seem to be leading into
our controlled buffer so a jump to EAX
might actually work for us in this case.
However, this is not an elegant solution
so let’s Try Harder.
Continuing our analysis, it looks like
the ESP register points toward the end
of our unique buffer at the time of the
crash but this only gives us a few bytes
of shellcode to work with.
We can try to insert a first stage
shellcode into that limited space.
Rather than an actual payload such as a
reverse shell,
this first stage shellcode will be used
to align the EAX register
register in order to make it point to our
buffer right after the “setup sound”
string and then jump to that location,
allowing us to skip the conditional jumps.
In order to achieve this, our first stage
shellcode would need to increase the
value of EAX by 12 bytes as there are 12
characters in the string “setup sound”.
We can accomplish this with an ADD
assembly instruction and then proceed
to jump to the memory pointed to by EAX
using a JMP instruction.
In order to get the correct opcodes for
our instructions, we use the
msf-nasm_shell utility from Metasploit.
Fortunately for us, these two sets of
instructions take up
only 5 bytes of memory.
We can update the proof-of-concept by
including the first stage shellcode and
repadding the original buffer with NOPs
in order to maintain the correct length.
Let’s give this new proof of concept a
try.
Our updated proof-of-concept code is
working perfectly.
The EIP register is overwritten with four
B’s,
and our first stage shellcode is located
at the memory address pointed to
by the ESP register.